
1.	OOps concept, access specifier, override – overloading
2.	Aura and LWC, JavaScript, platform events
3.	OOB and customization
4.	Sharing model (OWD, profile, role, FLS, permission set, sharing rule, apex sharing) , how can we restrict access or can we restrict access with sharing rule?
5.	Shield
6.	Integration and async apex (all types)
7.	SOQL, SOSL
8.	Lightning (Aura, LWC), Lightning Message service
9.	How LWC and Platform events work together
10.	Best practices in apex coding, test class writing, governor limit
11.	SFDC Order of execution
12.	CPQ knowledge
13.	Community licensing, deploying
14.	Design patterns (Apex, Integration)
15.	Batch and future class syntax, how to call it from test class
16.	How to create multi-lingual Communities
17.	Update the record using Lightning Flow , taking care of new and old value
18.	Before and after trigger, new and old, what is accessible
19.	REST and SOAP api
20.	Agile methodology, sprint processes and connect, Scrum meeting, backlog grooming, planning, story points, Stand up, demo, retrospect
21.	CICD and devOps tool (Git, SFDX, BitBucket, ANT…..)


shell interviews

Shell Question’s:

-How to store email data in custom object by customer email?
-How to track Rich area text field? Tracking field is not allowed
-How to count number of contacts on account?
All scenarios explained-Delete, Create, update.

1)	What is that feature available in VF pages and not in LWC or Aura that makes it useful – PDF generation 
2)	How to count number of contacts on account? (Apart from Triggers what options we have) – 
3)	How to restrict deletion of parent objects even if it has 1 child record(Apart from before delete) – (while configuring lookup fields we can go with the option don’t allow deletion of lookup field value)
4)	How to track Rich area text field? Tracking rich text field is not allowed – (Workflow field update + new Text Area || custom objects)
5)	A new application was onboarded with 50 profiles with salesforce platform license,
how to grant a user access to it having salesforce license?
6)	What is that maximum timeout for HTTP Callouts – 120s
7)	How to store email data in custom object by customer email? – 

-Sales team and Service team data- How to share one team data to manager of other team.

A new application was onboarded with 50 profiles with salesforce platform license,
how to grant a user access to it having salesforce license?

How component interact with backhand data in aura?

Can component directly call helper?
Can component directly call backend?

difference b/w helper and controller.js

how to create multiple user in single go in an org?






here are some of the questions we noted from prior CI round so sharing for your preparation: 
1. what is purpose of uiRecordApi import. 
 to get records data and default values
2. what are the files created in LWC. 
  js,html,meta-xml
3. how many files created in L WC. 
 3
4. what is the purpose of myComponent.js-meta.xml.  
  implements interfce
5. write the pseudocode code for imperatively method in LWC .

6. what is the purpose of refreshApex method even @wire functionality is in LWC.
7. how to pass parameter to server method.

8. how many decorators in LWC.  
track,api,wire
9. what is the purpose of @track decorator.
   to track the changes in varaibles
10. how may way to create variable in js.
  let,var,const
11. how to js identify variable types like string, number, map, array, etc.
   typeOf
12. what id difference between LWC and Aura Component.
13. why LWC is lightweight.
Because of the absence of an abstraction layer, LWC is likely to load and run much faster than Aura components. It is also lightweight and memory-efficient as it is built on Web Components.
14. how to use custom label inside LWC.
import labelName from '@salesforce/label/label-referen
15. how to use list of custom labels inside LWC.

16. how to de-activate user when user created in system.
17. can we create and assign custom layout for user object.
18. how to create picklist option from myComponent.js-meta.xml file.
LWC : 1. What aura has that LWC doesn't that makes you use aura on lwc.
2. How to display variables on templates in lwc.
Aura :1. How to pass parameters to child component from parent if there are no events are allowed like component event or application event?
2. For component event, how the event propagates in steps like first root to source or source that fired the event to root of the component tree.
3. How will you handle an event in only one phase like only in bubble phase or capture phase?
4. Tell verbally syntax of apex function call on aura.
5. How to optimize server call if I am making server call repeatedly for the same parameters.(setStorable and cacheable) 
Trigger : 1. In before insert, do we have trigger.old and do we have trigger.newmap
2. Write a trigger for each newly inserted contact which doesn’t have an account to insert an account for each of them on insertion.
3. If you have lookup relationship how to have rollup summary calculation done on parent record?
Sharing: 1. If a user have read access for an object on its profile and read write access on the object's record will that user be able to edit the record and why?
2. If we have two users with same profile having edit access to a sobject, how to give edit access to one user and read only access to another user for the records of that sobject optimally?
3. If I have a custom object and while trying to add sharing rule for the object , I can't find its sharing rules option in sharing settings. What is the reason and if multiple tell all.
Configuration : 1. How to convert lookup to master detail relationship?
2. Give example of junction object or explain junction object.
•  Apex programming basic concepts like bulkified triggers, trigger best practices, transaction execution details 
•  lightning web components, salesforce integration. 
•  Scenario based questions will get asked around OWD, security and object modelling.

how to provide on-demand sharing in an object which is private by default.

for an N scope variable size in Batch, how many records will come in List<sObject>. And if I am updating 2000 records at one go, how many records trigger will process in each set. 

-------------NetWaste ----

•  Salesforce Data modal Question
a>. scenario : you have car object and salesPerson and buyer Please design data modal for client with objects to store all info.
b>. Security question on above data modal. Like If we put OWD setting for buyer as private then what Happen. 
•  Question on LWC Events, connected call back function and how we will connect aura to LWC and stages in LWC.
a>. What is property in LWC.
b>. why we use property in LWC.
c>. different type of Property in LWC. 
•  Question on Lightning.
a>. What is LDS in lightning and how you will achieve same thing in LWC. 
b>. What interface you use to display lightning comp in Community. 
•  what is future method and can we call it from trigger. 
•  scenario to schedule a class when ever account field value get change. 
•  difference between workflow and process builder.


Below are the questions asked:
Configuration:
Create data model for sales representative when a user come to purchase a car.
How to avoid one Sales person data not to be shown to other?
Can the data be seen by manager directly or any setting required?
if a user want to see data of another user only how can we do that
Diff b/w manual sharing and apex sharing?
profile permission set scenarios
How can we control record visibility in global search?
Customization:
Bulkification of triggers means what?
How to stop recursion using static variable?
Before and after undelete?
Can we filter records in standard related list without using code?
LWC: 
Lifecycle hooks ?
How to pass parameter from parent to child component in LWC
Integration:
Connected apps and implementation?
How to Control object access using connected apps?
GIT:
How to get code from repository ?
How to remove conflicts?

---------------- Syngenta ------------------------------

•	Community - licensing 
•	Sharing  - how do you restrict users of one customer  from seeing data for another customer 
•	How do you change contact name whenever account name is changed 
•	How would you implement one to one relationship between account and contact 
•	What is the order of execution when you save a record 
•	How do you developer a LWC component to show roll-up summary field dynamically for any object, e.g. opportunities for an account, cases for an account   
•	How do you deploy Community 
•	How do you support multiple languages in a single community 
•	Batch processing 
•	What is Future method 

1.	Difference between static and non-static keyword in variable and methods
2.	Oop’s concept
3.	LWC Decorators difference
4.	Process builders / workflow and flows difference (When to use what),
5.	Integration Issues(What issue we generally face in integration, Oauth 2.0, Salesforce to Salesforce integration )
6.	Platform events and its uses in integrating real time data
7.	How to debug JS in LWC (Breakpoints, Watch, Call stack), and its best practices
8.	Why to use future for callout?
9.	Difference Between Sync & Async process
10.	With sharing and without sharing difference (Why to use without sharing explicitly when it is the default).
11.	Constructors of method (How to call method of one class in another class).
12.	LWC public and private reactive properties.
13.	Junction objects 
14.	LWC Lifecycle

----------------------------------------- Vertex -------------------------------------------

1.	Do you have experience with agile methodologies? What are all the ceremonies/calls/meetings in Agile?
2.	Integration case study from your past project implementation.
a.	What is your experience in integration? Any knowledge on REST or SOAP Api callouts? And follow up questions like how was it implemented?
3.	Unit tests: What approach do you take while doing unit testing and writing test classes.
4.	Effective ways of error handling and error logging
5.	How much do you know about CPQ?
6.	Experience with managed package if any
7.	Experience of interacting with end users
8.	Experience in CI/CD and GitHub

MasterCard prep --------
Lighting
1) there is one div in the lightning component and when it call from js its giving error what can be the possible reasons
2) application event and component event
3) how to display image in lighting component
4) There are two components A and B  .  If data needs to send from B to A or A to B how we can send .

LWC
1) events in lwc
2) If there are 2 components which are not linked with each other and i want to pass the data from one component to another how we can send in lwc

3) trigger
Two objects A is parent and B is child
There is one amount field is present on B object .
Whenever amount is updated or added needs to display updated value in object A custom field.
Explain which events will use here
Explain how will you write trigger step by step


4) integration process
Explain about previous project integrations done

4.1 ) what is connected apps And Types

4.2) Which web service use in previous projects


5) previous project overview

6) deployment tool used in previous project
------------------------------------------------------ Shell ------------------------------------

1)	What is that feature available in VF pages and not in LWC or Aura that makes it useful – PDF generation 
2)	How to count number of contacts on account? (Apart from Triggers what options we have) – 
3)	How to restrict deletion of parent objects even if it has 1 child record(Apart from before delete) – (while configuring lookup fields we can go with the option don’t allow deletion of lookup field value)
4)	How to track Rich area text field? Tracking rich text field is not allowed – (Workflow field update + new Text Area || custom objects)
5)	A new appliction was onboarded with 50 profiles with salesforce platform licence,
how to grant a user access to it having salesforce licence?
6)	What is that maximum timeout for HTTP Callouts – 120s
How to store email data in custom object by customer email?


POLSOURCE Interview Questions
===========================
They asked about your technical exp and what are the areas you worked and which product do you like in salesforce.
1.	What is Polymorphism in Apex (Method overloading and overriding)?
2.	In which scenario u used the Polymorphism?
3.	What is abstract method and interface and when u used that?
4.	What are apex design patterns and why we need to follow?
5.	Explain about the singleton pattern and where we are using this pattern?
6.	What is mixed-dml exception how to resolve this issue?
7.	It is possible to use lwc outside salesforce, if yes how can achieve this?
8.	What are the Decorator in lwc?
9.	What is shadow dom and how to add the css to shadow element?
10.	How many ways we can pass the data from child to parent using lwc?

What is the wrong the with below code how to resolve this code as per best practices? 
List<MyOtherObject__c> myOtherObjects = new List<MyOtherObject__c>();
for (Integer index = 0; index < csvFileLines.size(); ++index) {
	String[] csvRecordValues = csvFileLines[index].split(',');
	List<Contact> contacts = [SELECT Name FROM Contact WHERE Name = :csvRecordValues[10] Limit 1];
	if (contacts.isEmpty()) {
		Contact aContact = new Contact();
		List<String> nameTokens = csvRecordValues[10].split('\\s');
		aContact.FirstName = nameTokens[0];
		aContact.LastNAme = nameTokens[1];
    try {
    	insert aContact;
    }
    catch (Exception ex) {
      ApexPages.addMessage(new ApexPages.Message(ApexPages.Severity.ERROR, 'Error creating contact!'));System.debug(ex.getMessage());
    	return;
    }
	}
  myOtherObjects.ContactLookup = [SELECT Id FROM Contact WHERE Name = :csvRecordValues[10] limit 1].Id;
}





